# DataBootcamp
This project was completed by Mariayanna Arundel, Nuomin Huang, and You Sun An in partial fulfilment of ECON-UB.0232, Data Bootcamp, Fall 2018. We certify that the NYU Stern Honor Code applies to this project. In particular, We have: Clearly acknowledged the work and efforts of others when submitting written work as our own. The incorporation of the work of others–including but not limited to their ideas, data, creative expression, and direct quotations (which should be designated with quotation marks), or paraphrasing thereof– has been fully and appropriately referenced using notations both in the text and the bibliography. And We understand that: Submitting the same or substantially similar work in multiple courses, either in the same semester or in a different semester, without the express approval of all instructors is strictly forbidden. We acknowledge that a failure to abide by NYU Stern Honor Code will result in a failing grade for the project and course.

Our project is an analysis of data from the New York Police Department Complaint history, which is a data set that details all complaints filed with the NYPD from 2006 to 2017. Although New York City has a very high number of crimes occurring per year, the “homicide number is the lowest in the modern era of NYPD Compstat record keeping, which began in 1994”. The spreadsheet organizes the data into a set of several different categories, from type of crime to borough crime was committed in and what the demographics of the suspect and victim were.

We chose to look for trends in these statistics to get a better understand of the causation of these crimes. We compared the crime data to common associated factors, such as crime prevalence per borough in relation to age of the suspect, race of the suspect, as well as the distribution of crimes in relation to what borough the crimes were committed in. The analysis of this data will provide a better understanding of the distribution of crime in New York City over the last decade. This data can be further utilized by the NYPD themselves to help create tactics to combat these crimes in the coming years, for example, for our first analysis, which goes into detail about the crimes committed on christmas day, NYPD can look at our data and chose to make strategic decisions such as increasing NYPD staff is heavily populated shopping areas to help catch and combat shoplifting crime. 



